Danny Park: Hello, everybody, welcome to our
Danny Park: pre-recorded session on data. Quality.
Danny Park: So let's kind of dive right into it. I'm trying to
Danny Park: target this recording not to go over an hour and fifteen minutes. But let's see how how well I do. All right. So data quality.
Danny Park: So here's what's very important. So measuring data quality it's critical to understand.
Danny Park: If we want to use enterprise data confidently in both the operational and analytical applications and settings right. Only good quality data. Can power accurate or valuable, or, in other words, useful analysis, which can, you know, drive
Danny Park: trusted business decisions.
Danny Park: So again, like we have to really understand what we mean by data quality. Okay. So we see the components there, and we'll kind of get into it, as you know. I I, you know, share more.
Danny Park: Ah around this topic. So, according to Gartner, right poor data card can result in additional fifteen million dollars of spend an average annual cost for an organization. Um. That annual cost can come from, you know, just four business decisions. So basically maybe you lost opportunity or you missed
Danny Park: compliance like you broke a rule you,
Danny Park: you know not on purpose. So you know, for those just want to clarify that. You know we we a lot in, you know literature and the media. How companies are, You know. You know they're breaking laws, and they're feeling It's comply with regulation, so it's not. It's not done on purpose. It's and it will talk to. Why, when we when we talk about data quality, it's because something was missed along the way, which is poor data management that just happened to just result in bad decisions, so that fifteen million dollars
Danny Park: annual cost spend It's significant for many companies. So again, that's That's by.
Danny Park: Sorry I gotta go ahead. And
Danny Park: just for that by two hours. My apologies there. So
Danny Park: you know, a big, I guess a big example is one of the global banks about two years ago, maybe about a year and a half ago, one of their operating units in Southeast Asia got a flag for fraud
Danny Park: right? Um! And when you actually look into the background of um, how that occurred it wasn't, you know, a group of malicious executives or senior people doing fraud. It was that it was, you know, one particular player
Danny Park: didn't really understand the rules, the compliance rules and the regulations that the that the fed had, and that activity. Just wasn't caught.
Danny Park: It's time
Danny Park: it wasn't raised to the proper authorities, you know, in a proper way, and no one really knew what was going on. So basically. The reporting of that instance which comes from the data generated by the organization just was of poor quality. So what ended up happening was the fed cart
Danny Park: instead of the internal controls catching it ahead of time. So that global Investment bank ended up having to pay billions of dollars in fines, and the fed actually came in and made them re-engineer. The entire internal audit processes
Danny Park: from not only the manual processes and operating procedures, but also build new technology. So it was an additional sten that that bank had to do because of that poor quality data.
Danny Park: So let's before we talk about data quality.
Danny Park: Right? Let's kind of talk about the three big Vs of data because we have to. You kind of have to frame it up into what big data
Danny Park: um at a high level really means to an organization, and why data quality is then important to layer on top of the three beams of of the big data. So there's three V's. Is volume, velocity and
Danny Park: variety.
Danny Park: So let's talk about variety first, so
Danny Park: that's talking about the different.
Danny Park: The type and kinds of data that you get
Danny Park: right. It could be, you know, from structured and unstructured. So example of a structured type data is,
Danny Park: and I like That's it in voice
Danny Park: right invoice and buildings usually have their very well structured right, even though there might be different types of date of, you know, invoices coming in, depending on who the who the vendor is. It's still structured right, you know. There's a you know name of the company who serviced.
Danny Park: I'll provide the service. The name of the company who purchased the service. You know, then, all the services that that were provided, you know, along with each cost. And then you know, of course. Then at the end you have a total sum due. Then the taxes apply, then total right due to the to the vendor. Um, it's. It's
Danny Park: anyone reading it can understand what it's. You know both the context and the purpose around that file. Right? So that's the example of a structured data
Danny Park: format unstructured is something that is just all over the place that a a person, or especially a machine, when they come across this type of format in an unstructured format.
Danny Park: You kind of don't know what it's talking about, because, like it, it can be all over the place like the best example would be um text message right. Um, you know tweets are huge right? A reason why they kind of you know our politics and and politicians kind of really like, you know, like they kind of jump on tweets because one
Danny Park: tweeds are not structured. In fact, they they kind of limit you amount of characters, so it's kind of forces it on structured nature. So if you were to read one tweet, you're you're not going to capture the whole context of what's being on. You know what's being um communicated. So you might jump to conclusion. Uh, Besides, Twitter and another will be just this, you know text right when you, when you text back a port of people, you know we're we're not using correct grammar we're using, you know, jargon or or slang, or even
emojis.
Danny Park: Right? So unless we understand what the topic and the background and the visuals involved, and what they how they use certain emojis or other. You know acronyms, things like that. We have no idea
Danny Park: the purpose or value of the communication happening. So that's an example of unstructured. Another type is, you know, images, videos, right images, and videos are, you know they're not text. They. It's a whole, not another type of data that comes in.
Danny Park: You know pictures. Instagram is an example. You have videos, you know iphone videos like
Danny Park: that closed circuit camera videos, If you're in law enforcement like it's it's all you know. Again, it's it's
Danny Park: not only
Danny Park: it's like the device itself
Danny Park: leads to a different type of image and video format, right? So we So when we talk about the different types of of data files, right, We have to also understand that they're actual like, you know, Dot
Danny Park: Png, that Jpd: all different types that are meant to, you know, consuming by one to the machines versus another, so about to keep that in mind. So we have images and videos. Next is humid, generated right? We only talked about texts right usually when human generated. Um. Unless the person has a reason to structure the message
Danny Park: right, it usually comes in an unstructured format
Danny Park: right? So he does a human, generated type of data. And then there is machine generated right? You know again, those buildings that you see on that reference I referenced earlier. That's actually from machines like sat, or some other like salesforce, or some other machine, or a platform or a program that a human types, the data in
Danny Park: to, you know already, provided structured fields, and it's going to produce for you a structured data
Danny Park: right? They usually other machines can read. So
Danny Park: that's one of the view. So keep so keep that in mind. Not that everything that I just shared now started thinking about it around like the six components We're kind of dig deep into the six components of data. Call that, you see here the completeness, consistency, confirmity, accuracy, integrity, and timeliness.
Danny Park: Um, keep that in mind, as you know, we're talking to the the these right? So we covered the first V. Now let's go to velocity. So the velocity is how much data that you're receiving at any particular time.
Danny Park: Right? So um, not only receiving the data, but when you receive the data, what do you do with it Like you hopefully have the infrastructure to process it right? Not only, you know, not only process the data, So by processing it could be data transformation. You know, data cleansing
Danny Park: data, loading.
Danny Park: Are there calculations that you embed? So you have to have the infrastructure ready to receive the data and start. You know what you what you need to do with the data to get it somewhat. Ah usable value, right? Then. It's going to get sent downstream into other applications for them to consume. So velocities are very important. So think about like you're getting a lot of data.
Danny Park: How do you control for data quality?
Danny Park: Okay? So
Danny Park: when you're getting the data or generating data. Right? Like. Is it in real time? Right? It will be, you know, my example of a real time data stream would be my security. I. You know I use my home. I use
Danny Park: a security vendor right. I have cameras that I sit around my property and my front doing back door, and some of the windows right,
Danny Park: and,
Danny Park: like I needed to be running twenty, four over seven.
Danny Park: I need to know who's at the front door? Who's trying to climb over the back, and not that it happened. But you know it just I need I It It gives me, you know. It gives me that sense of of um, you know, comfort, but it needs to be continuously running,
Danny Park: because if if I miss an event, or let's say someone actually broke into my home. But I wasn't generating that data in real time. I might have lost the opportunity to catch that bandit
Danny Park: right and then ensure home insurance because they give me a lower rate because I have security devices. If my security devices were not running in real time, they might have issue and paying out meaning, they might think. Oh, maybe I turned it off, and i'm trying to do some insurance for
Danny Park: so real time. Data generation is also important thing to understand? Because, again, data quality is is the goal right? So the real time data generated in real time acquired in real time. Like, when do I get the data kind of thing. Then we have online and offline data,
Danny Park: Right? Ah, we know we all know what that is. So i'm not gonna, you know. Go to the basic online data is when you're connected to the Internet. That's the only time you get to that data is when you're on the Internet
Danny Park: versus there's some files that are offline that are resigning on your laptop, and unless you share it on a
Danny Park: a mechanism, unless you share it on a mechanism or infrastructure to actually provide your content to online consumers. You know that data is only useful to you, right? So that might impact the data quality. One of the six components, right? And then, you know, just like
Danny Park: kind of related to the real-time data generation, You know, streaming you know batching and bits, you know, basically, you know, just
Danny Park: all the you know networking
Danny Park: Ah, discipline around, like, you know, transferring bytes to bits and packages and routers and all that stuff like that matters right if you have poor infrastructure, and you're always, you know, throttle a bottleneck for sending images or or text or files, or whatever you need to, to to your ultimate consumer. Um, that's going to impact the other part. So, velocity every organization has to understand what the velocity of data that's coming into their organization is
Danny Park: in all different types,
Danny Park: right, both structured, unstructured online images, videos, human-generated machine-generated like the organization, has to have a good understanding of the velocity of the data coming in and going out.
Danny Park: Okay, And then the third V. So you know, we we kind of start to understand that you know, everything's kind of has to be working together, right? So velocity, priority. And then we have volume. Right. Volume is just the total complete amount of data that's being generated
Danny Park: from all of your different transactions from all of the data types of file types that you have, and how fast you're getting it.
Danny Park: So volume is, Do you have the storage space needed to collect data?
Danny Park: Try to be able to find the useful data, So you can go ahead and ensure data quality, because if you keep too much data and
Danny Park: it'll cost a lot of money and time
Danny Park: the data you have to find the actual useful amounts of data, or if you're not doing any of that exercise, and you're just,
Danny Park: you know, using all the data that you have without checking for it's six components, and you have four data qualities. So remember, So again, volume, velocity, variety. They all are together
Danny Park: has to be assessed by the organization, and they have to come to an understanding of what the organization's volume velocity of already looks like
Danny Park: right to have a good data plan, a data management plan,
Danny Park: All right. So
Danny Park: going from the three V's:
Danny Park: Now let's start to talk about
Danny Park: the data quality dimensions.
Danny Park: Okay. So data quality dimensions are measured attributes of data which you can individually assess, interpret, and improve right. What we mean by that is,
Danny Park: let's say you take a dataset
Danny Park: for me a total volume of data.
Danny Park: You grab the real-time generated
Danny Park: all lines, videos.
Danny Park: And you're pulling those out.
Danny Park: Then that's your let's say that's your data set. You want to work with right
Danny Park: for that given data set, you could actually assess it on each of the six components. So you could ask yourself, Is this complete
Danny Park: right example? Good example is, if I provide my streaming data to the police and my insurance company, my Home Assurance Company, and they see A.
Danny Park: Let's say the video was running, you know twelve A. M. And at one thirty A. M. It went out the
Danny Park: from one thirty Am. To one thirty-five am. And then it started again.
Danny Park: Right. So I have a five minute.
Danny Park: Yeah,
Danny Park: My my data set right. My video stream right? The data I provided. So it's not complete.
Danny Park: Right? So then, when we go to consistency, right? We could also measure that. So i'll use. I'll use these two examples, and i'll kind of keep going in the lecture. So let's say consistency. So an insurance company might. As Hey,
Danny Park: does that happen? A lot? Is there always a a missing timestamp between um one thirty and one thirty-five, am. Because if my recording device are always being shut off at that time every day, and that's consistent. So my data set is consistent in that gap.
Danny Park: Then I could have a case. The insurance company that look, I didn't shut it off malicious. I wasn't in cahoots of the person who broke into my house,
Danny Park: because this is always going out every day.
Danny Park: But then their argument might be well, maybe because you knew it went out every day
Danny Park: that time, because you didn't report it. Maybe you were still in. So you see how like
Danny Park: conversation about data quality is very important, because if my data was already covering completeness and consistency,
Danny Park: just a dialogue around the business decision. It gets easier, because right now it's difficult right that I'm engaging with my insurance company to go to make to get to a business decision.
Danny Park: Right? Are they going to pay me out or not? Or how far do they need to do the investigation to collect more data. Now,
Danny Park: to confirm. You know what I'm trying to say or communicate to them right. So
Danny Park: we already. So that's a good example of a quick example of how, if your data, if your data set is missing one of the components of data quality, it could increase the amount of time and effort
Danny Park: Right? That might be unnecessary, leading to more. You know this loss of opportunity for me. For example, i'm losing out on the pay right, the the the payout um, and other things like, say, in a real business female. We we talked about how Gartner said. Fifteen million on average,
Danny Park: is is cost to a company because of poor data quality for larger organizations, more than fifteen million. Remember, fifty million is average
Danny Park: right? Go um the um. The other example I gave of the investment bank. They lost the billions of dollars. Right?
Danny Park: Let's talk about completeness right? Because we kind of covered it. So completeness is, is,
Danny Park: Does your dataset
Danny Park: have all of the attributes
Danny Park: that you need
Danny Park: to be able to make
Danny Park: the best business decision?
Danny Park: Right? So that's that's That's high level in a nutshell. What completeness means
Danny Park: a lot of
Danny Park: I would say teams, data teams that you know my perspective, you know, in my I experience, and you know some also in like. When you read, You know literature and all the other reports, that
Danny Park: completeness is a very big deal, but not enough Teams are ensuring or coming to an understanding. If the data is that they're using is complete or not
Danny Park: right. Sometimes
Danny Park: data sets are missing. A key variable which causes
Danny Park: teams to provide, you know not not the most accurate or useful reporting.
Danny Park: So again, completeness is, Do you have all of the attributes within the data set that you need to be able to arrive
Danny Park: the best business decision possible.
Danny Park: So, in other words, if you're a data analyst, can you provide
Danny Park: the best analytics
Danny Park: to your
Danny Park: You know, a business leader or a man, or whoever you're sending it to. Because if the data is not complete, your analysis or analytics, or whatever you're providing as a deliverable might be incorrect,
Danny Park: right, or misleading.
Danny Park: All right. So the next
Danny Park: dimension of quality of data quality. Let's talk about accuracy right, because accuracy is the
Danny Park: There's another thing that's you know. Obviously it's important. But
Danny Park: i'm not talking about accuracy when it comes to like calculations right like two plus two equals four. That's easy accuracy, meaning. If you get a set of raw data with all of its attributes, how do you know what you received is accurate,
Danny Park: right? So data accuracy is a level to which data represents the real world scenario and confirms with a verifiable source right So accuracy of data ensures that the associated real-world entities can participate as plan.
Danny Park: Right? So another way to kind of, say, this is
Danny Park: when a business transaction occurs,
Danny Park: that business transaction must be documented within the data.
Danny Park: So when you see, let's say a list of transactions,
Danny Park: you know it's going to have this to use the building example. It's going to have the vendor. It's going to have the the
Danny Park: the
Danny Park: person who receives the services. What was, you know, what service was delivered, and
Danny Park: you know, and the bill like you know, the rate per hour and the final bill, the
Danny Park: and you get You get a whole list of those
Danny Park: before we can move on to our additional analysis of that data. If i'm a business analyst and doing business analytics on on my, on my data set that I was provided to list of transactions. Right I have to. I I'm. I'm going to assume that these things are accurate
Danny Park: right that what i'm being provided
Danny Park: so, How do I that know that's act? It's accurate right
Danny Park: that comes from
Danny Park: You know this confirmity.
Danny Park: There has to be something in that data set file that gives me some comfort
Danny Park: that it's either confirmed or
Danny Park: or
Danny Park: I have a way to go ahead and track it down and trace it back to get the confirmation that the transaction, or that that set of data that i'm analyzing would actually occur. So meaning that business scenario actually occurred. So what
Danny Park: what do you know usual files usually have, Right? They, you know. Let's say, if we use tag example, they use our social security number
Danny Park: right for individual taxes,
Danny Park: right? They'll you know, they basically, say, Hey,
Danny Park: you know what's your name? What your address? What's your source? Screen number? What's the E. I. N. Of your employer and all those things. So since they're giving you a paper trail or a set of data that helps you confirm the accuracy of things, it's helpful for us
Danny Park: to just really use it like work with the data,
Danny Park: right? And as we're going through the file,
Danny Park: you know, if you see some, you know some things that we have. We have a question around, or it looks a little fuzzy to us, but you can go in and go back and confirm it.
Danny Park: This is the the the confirmity, accuracy really kind of going in hand hand. So usually when when I see data sets, and
Danny Park: if I don't see any data
Danny Park: that kind of shows
Danny Park: it was confirmed,
Danny Park: or
Danny Park: provides me an ability to get confirmation. Then I have to kind of lean toward the the assumption that the data set might not be as accurate as I need it to be to be able to do my analysis.
Danny Park: Okay, So i'm not saying we need one hundred percent accuracy in our data sets, because to get to one hundred percent accuracy accuracy. Sometimes the the return on investment is not there
Danny Park: right If it's going to cost me a a a, you know. Let's say, half a million dollars.
Danny Park: Go ahead and and
Danny Park: confirm each line of my row. But the purpose of the data set
Danny Park: to analyze it is to in the hopes of driving, driving two hundred thousand dollars in revenue. Obviously, why would I spend five hundred thousand dollars in spend just to drive two hundred thousand dollars in revenue.
Danny Park: Right? I'm. Already at a loss there. So you have to do some return and investment analysis around the
Danny Park: the accuracy. So as good business analytics, leaders or business analytics, business analysts. The first thing we should look in a dataset is, you know if obviously a way to kind of trace, and then confirm the accuracy of the data set, or
Danny Park: something that shows that it was already confirmed. Like, for example, for anyone working in audit if you were, you know, if you work in internal art and external audit, you know the systems that you use
Danny Park: provide date in time stamps of when it was reviewed and signed off, so a sign of means that someone reviewed it for its accuracy, and can speak to the accuracy of the dataset.
Danny Park: Okay, So
Danny Park: most
Danny Park: data sets and large organizations
Danny Park: that are being worked on. They always have some timestamp book or a confirmative for those who are working today.
You're working in a set of data.
Danny Park: If there is no confirmation that your data is accurate, you really shouldn't assume that your data is accurate enough to work on.
Danny Park: Okay, Um.
Danny Park: So if there any questions around that, of course, please feel free to email me, i'll touch upon, you know i'll again. I'll address any questions that that we have when we meet live. But it's an important concept to understand, like
Danny Park: what the problem I see is when I see
Danny Park: especially I'm more on the junior side when junior analysts come in and they're analyzing a data set.
Danny Park: They're not. They're too quick to start to start doing their their You know their the calculations, the process like they're not really going back to going back into the data set to see if it's already been signed up for confirm.
Danny Park: They could be like a simple email like you get an email saying, Hey, the data, the data set attaches email. They all been confirmed by this group. I'll be a good to go.
Danny Park: So where we run a lot of issues with confirmation of data sets is actually around, you know. Open source, right?
Danny Park: You know. People go to open source. They they're pulling down files and datasets and calculations that say templates right here in lean Sigma world like. So i'll just share an example in lean six, Sigma. There's a there's a heavy. There's a list of heavy, heavy calculations that you do at the platform level. Um!
Danny Park: So I know of one ah process excellence consultant who actually went on an open-source site and and pulled down a so leading six, Sigma like Count Template. We just punch in the numbers, and it'll give you the calculations that we need for um,
Danny Park: for our continuous improvements, our plans and approaches that we want to implement.
Danny Park: So this you know, this consultant was just using it and plugging numbers and giving all that. You know all that stuff to the client. And when the client was
Danny Park: obviously to have a review phase when they're reviewing, when they're at least sixteen by people reviewing the numbers and calculations, something was off.
Danny Park: So then they asked to the consultant they said, Hey, like? You know, these numbers seem off like How did you calculate them. And then he said, Oh, I use this template. So when they dug into the the template and the formulas, all the formulas were wrong
Danny Park: that led to, you know, some issues, but
Danny Park: to that consultant's fault that consultant assumed accuracy
Danny Park: a template that you really couldn't confirm
Danny Park: if that template was like you know. Useful, right? It didn't know it's open source. You don't know who created it. It was posting some random website or user board, and and and you just download it and started using it right. Nothing in the file said it was reviewed or signed off, and it again Didn't give, you, you know, going back like source
Danny Park: right to trace back to how it was creating and who created it. So that's the example of,
Danny Park: you know, really on the you know a data analyst or a business analyst
Danny Park: really assuming incorrectly and causing a lot of problems downstream, because what happens is what what happened. Both teams, both the consulting team and the client team had to bring in a wrangle to gather the data that was created to bring up the data quality higher, so that they had to really redo all the numbers and processes to get.
Danny Park: It is accurate
Danny Park: right by using the accurate formulas
Danny Park: all right,
Danny Park: So moving on next would be consistency,
Danny Park: all right, so kind of touch upon consistency, using my insurance example. So this dimension, this dimension, represents, if the same information stored and used, and multiple instances, matches
Danny Park: right? So what do you mean by that? It means that so? I use it like a Ted example, or you know the tax industry.
Danny Park: So in in the tax industry
Danny Park: for anyone who's working in the Big Four, and you're in tax. You probably see this every day. You know where i'm going to go with it.
Danny Park: So
Danny Park: in tax the Pwc. Tax team
Danny Park: they get their data from several different, so they get it from one client. Let's say, you know you are a tax engagement team, right? And you're working with. Let's call client client One client. One needs to give you their financial data for you to go ahead and start
Danny Park: doing the tax work, the tax prep and the tax work to go ahead and file client, one's tax, so client one needs to give you its data client one. And this is for real like I'm not kidding client. One gets their financial data from several different third parties, right? Because client one
Danny Park: at the global level. Because, you know, Pwc works with global clients. They're in several different types of businesses,
Danny Park: Those businesses, those third parties use several different types of data systems to generate their data.
Danny Park: So when all you know, so the client one, I guess i'll use a for example, client one. It was a real client. They had thirty, seven different
Danny Park: sources of their data, so they're getting it from thirty, seven different third parties, and it was client. One was getting it and client one was taking it and then giving it to
Danny Park: the ped overseas tax engagement team.
Danny Park: The problem with that is
Danny Park: client One right, Let's say, client one that lets it. But client one has a number of investors.
Danny Park: So let's call investor. Um.
Danny Park: Let's call an investor, Peter right, Peter. So,
Danny Park: Peter Peter, you know what I've been watching game of thrones
Danny Park: with House of Dragons, but i'm a Peter Thinklage right. It's a Peter Dinklage, not the real one. I just made it up like I don't know if Peter, if he does key to ding with his taxes or not, I have no idea. I just I just he's my favorite actor.
Danny Park: So Peter Dinklage is an investor in client one.
Danny Park: So since this is investing in client, one
Danny Park: he's going to get financial data that relates to him from several different
Danny Park: um, all the third parties, right? So all the third parties put in their financial data, and all the data that comes into Peter is It's it's. You know it's under Peter's profile.
Danny Park: Let's take one.
Danny Park: Um. Let's say, let's take one revenue type. Right. Let's say um
Danny Park: uh dividends right?
Danny Park: Peter Thinklidge gets his dividends.
Danny Park: That originates from the third party, and it's called dividend. So a three hundred dollars dividend right, and it's under Peter's profile. Right? So that's a category in Peter's profile view. Imagine a a spreadsheet with Peter's, you know profile, and one of the columns has no other rows as
Danny Park: David and income.
Danny Park: Right so then, let's say, another vendor comes in, and it's dividend income.
Danny Park: It's from dividends, and it's income it's going to Peter, but this company calls dividend income. They call that passive income
Danny Park: right? But it's the same thing. It's dividend income from one company what they? It's it's it. But this company happens to call dividend in compassive income.
Danny Park: So then, that's a second row,
Danny Park: right, and Peter's profile. So we have dividend income and passive income. The
Danny Park: So let's say that happens. It keeps happening, and there is there, out of the thirty-seven companies. Twenty of them are calling David and income something different.
Danny Park: So that's inconsistent.
Danny Park: So if you want to calculate Peter's total dividend income
Danny Park: right that he needs to pay a lower tax rate on
Danny Park: How would we calculate that in the actual dat sheet, when all of them are labeled something different,
Danny Park: right? We would have to either do some data transformation,
Danny Park: name them all the same. So we could actually do the sum by the sum. The some formula
Danny Park: like, or made it data tag, or do something, I don't know, but the point is because it's because it's not consistent. Used
Danny Park: right. It's not consistent. If the income passive income, you know whatever other income there they could be.
Danny Park: It's caused a lot of data quality issues, because what if
Danny Park: there's there's an income passive income and some other company calls it Um,
Danny Park: non, uh you know non-active income,
Danny Park: right? Which really what they mean in tasks. But as a tax professional who's young who just started in tax. This Never been on this climb before it is the first time, seeing that they might say, Oh, not an active income. I never seen that that, I guess I don't think that's dividends or passive income,
Danny Park: although it is because it's the inconsistency of it, like the tax professional doesn't. Add that
Danny Park: her his total calculation of the of the income for for Peter, and add the
Danny Park: the non-active income to some other income category which is taxed higher. The
Danny Park: So, because of that
Danny Park: that error right. Peter might end up paying more text that he needs to
Danny Park: right. So that's the issue around data, a consistency
Danny Park: that is pervasive right now in
Danny Park: the industry.
Danny Park: Right. So consistency is very important. Again, consistency basically means that
Danny Park: dividend income
Danny Park: should be dividend income
Danny Park: by all thirty-seven.
Danny Park: Third-party vendors was given their data.
Danny Park: It's not. We have inconsistent data, and since it's inconsistent, it's,
Danny Park: the analyst has to find a way to create consistency in that data.
Danny Park: The the the further away a data set is from consistency, the increase in
Danny Park: error rate
Danny Park: right? And that's again. I'll just kind of go to like, you know.
Danny Park: You know, just my first kind of
Danny Park: sharing of a lot of the paintings I see in in junior level resources that because you know it's
Danny Park: they again, like, I said, they start too early, and in trying to analyze. And i'm not analyzed and doing the actual processing calculations
Danny Park: Right? There's no they don't like a good, a well, a really good. This analyst
Danny Park: is looking at the data set, and also checking, not only for completeness and accuracy through through through through confirmation, but also to see if consistency is lacking
Danny Park: in that example, that simple task, example,
Danny Park: right. Where we have dividend income, passive income and not active income, it's very easy to assume something's consistent.
Danny Park: But when it's not
Danny Park: all right. So
Danny Park: that's very important to keep an eye on. So after consistency,
Danny Park: let's talk about timeliness. So what is timeliness. Timeliness is Basically, saying, Are you getting the right data at the right time and getting it to the right? People who are going to make the business decisions
Danny Park: right? So timeliness that just doesn't mean that you get the data on time, and that's another. I guess that's the issue that I see again with. I mean our business analysts and data analysts who just, you know, who are entry level right? Because, again, it's all the subject kind of like over experience, and when you have a good coach and good mentor and good training is,
Danny Park: they never ask about when the data needs to be sent to the business teams.
Danny Park: They view timeliness as only one fact or meaning, you know. Did they get it
Danny Park: right? That good? They get it on time right? So they could do their work, but they don't. They never really ask about. Hey you?
Danny Park: I wait on this, and I process this late.
Danny Park: I don't process this in the time that the business leaders are requiring of me,
Danny Park: right? Maybe when I send the analysis
Danny Park: that raw data that I needed was actually up, and that the raw data that actually used to do my analysis. The
Danny Park: was actually updated thirty minutes ago,
Danny Park: right? Because I just you know, I just took that long. And let's say, you know, Data came at nine nine Am. And I analyzed it at three Pm. And then I sent it off to the business leaders to for them to help them make their business decision.
Danny Park: But between nine Am. To three Pm.
Danny Park: At let's say ten, thirty, A. M. That raw data that I used
Danny Park: was updated. So my analysis was using outdated data.
Danny Park: So then, when they get to the business leaders, they're going to assume they might assume that the analysis that I did was using the most recent data, which was at ten, thirty, but actually using a nine Am. B.
Danny Park: That happens all the time
Danny Park: all the time.
Danny Park: Right? So timeliness is in it's. It's. It's an exercise that the business and data analyst has to do.
Danny Park: Ah!
Danny Park: By including all the stakeholders, not just themselves.
Danny Park: Greatest
Danny Park: untimely data
Danny Park: automatically
Danny Park: renders that data analysis inaccurate.
Danny Park: Right? So it's a good thing to understand as a data and business analyst to what and the the stakeholders need to report. Then also check with the database administrators, or whoever is giving them the data
Danny Park: when the refreshes of the data happen.
Danny Park: So the analysis
Danny Park: being done on that data is using the most at number most recent,
Danny Park: confirmed an accurate data possible.
Danny Park: All right. In the last. One
Danny Park: kind of relates to
Danny Park: the source of data, writes called data integrity.
Danny Park: So
Danny Park: you know, when data enters the organization right that you know you acquire data, the data is usually transformed multiple times across multiple systems before it actually gets to the analyst, Right? Usually the analyst
Danny Park: Um:
Danny Park: Yeah, The analysts most often gets the data at the end
Danny Park: right? Because it's, you know, like you know, if you think about um like this tax data, you know. Let's use a tax an example like at Pwc tax teams. When they get the data, they usually the last person, the last team or person or individual to do the process,
Danny Park: because after that it's going off to the tax authority because you're fine, but you're filing um taxes for your client. So from a getting to a P. Of C tax engagement team That data went through.
Danny Park: You know all the banks, all the private equity firms, all the auditors and all their systems and all of their
Danny Park: transaction did like everything. It goes to everything across everything right. So
Danny Park: because data, the data's journeying, the
Danny Park: yes,
Danny Park: very complex,
Danny Park: and across several different systems and ecosystems,
Danny Park: we have to ask,
Danny Park: What's the integrity of the data?
Danny Park: Right? So integrity indicates that the attributes are maintained correctly, even as data gets stored and used in diverse systems data integrity ensures that all enterprise data can be traced and connected.
Danny Park: Right? So I guess What's What's a good example of data losing its integrity?
Okay,
Danny Park: um hacking.
Danny Park: So let's say there's someone in your company
Danny Park: Cool
Danny Park: Wants to know. Steal money.
Danny Park: I'll give you actually a real example. This is really cool, like a really cool but tragic example. So this back when I was in Marine Corps.
Danny Park: Um!
Danny Park: So there was a kernel in my battalion
Danny Park: uh who was looking at his paycheck,
Danny Park: and he found it odd. This guy was like a super nerd, this guy He had to be a narrative of the catch. This he found that that every other paycheck
Danny Park: it was off by five cents
Danny Park: right meaning, because in the military, in the government, like you get paid like
Danny Park: down to that
Danny Park: Any like pay like it doesn't change right? So you kind of know every every page the exact amount you're getting
Danny Park: So he was like, Why Is it like every other, you know, to pay pay payday? Whatever like it's, It's five cents less right than previous,
Danny Park: and he was like asking around. And then, you know, like some of the other, you know, like not some like all the marines, the battalion was saying, Oh, yeah, yeah, Oh, yeah. I noticed that, like I like. I just noticed that I had no idea.
Danny Park: And then they started to kind of go back into their pay right to pay stuff to see how long it has been happening, and it was like, you know, up to. I think some were up to five years, and that this was happening.
Danny Park: So now a a full investigation was done, and it coming to find out that there was a marine who's working in Admin.
Danny Park: Who was diverting five cents
Danny Park: every the time. Every marine, the battalion five cents from every paycheck, the
Danny Park: right, every other, every other paycheck, into his personal account
Danny Park: right over the last, like five years right, and he thought that
Danny Park: no one would notice, because it's only five cents.
Danny Park: Well, he ran, and he ran to the right. He ran to that one colonel. Who was it? Was that of a mega nerd um. So he got caught and he got. He went to break like I don't know how long I heard it was like for fifteen years, or something in the break for fraud, and whatever the Ucmj. So the Ucmj. Is a military military version of um
Danny Park: of the judicial system, right? And so in the for military folks we actually fall into both jurisdictions, like, if we do something bad. First the Federal Government will come after us or the State government.
Danny Park: Then, after we get punished for them, we get punished by the military, and the military is always.
Danny Park: It's always the punitive side of the military is always definitely harsher than the civilian side, so like it kind of keeps, you know, military folks in line, but this marine thought he was smarter than the average bear ran to the Colonel, who was smarter than Yogi Bear, and then he went to jail.
Danny Park: Well, eleven, one military jail, which is not a not a great place.
Danny Park: That's what we mean by
Danny Park: integrity. Failure,
Danny Park: right? So So the database was not maintained correctly,
Danny Park: right what the data wasn't stored correctly. Um, Because you had an outside agent who was actually manipulating the system to where it should be every month. The same pay is going out to, you know the the recipients instead
Danny Park: portions of it. Every other payday was, you know, every other day that was being diverted. So there was no integrity in this system
Danny Park: driven by a a bad player. So data integrity is very important. So it kind of rolls up to confirmity and also aggregate right. So
Danny Park: because it's almost insanely impossible to to confirm integrity of massive amounts of data. That's where we have a full team on the infrastructure side that ensures data integrity. Right? You have one cybersecurity professionals who who literally block
Danny Park: or um,
Danny Park: you know, like literally like prevent outside external hacks coming in, and also to identify, eliminate, and prevent internal
Danny Park: right. Um
Danny Park: fraud and all the manipulation from happening. So
Danny Park: those two things, you know, cyber security um is the frontline defense for ensuring that everyone trusted the day that's coming out, I mean, and i'll tell you how integrity is very important. So even when you know that investment banks like I called for fraud.
Danny Park: The Feds were not questioning the consistency confirmity, accuracy of completeness or timeliness of the data they're saying, We don't trust the integrity of your data.
Danny Park: We're going to go that far, because we just don't know that it was just one player
Danny Park: right like Why did it? Why didn't someone notice this at the data administrative level, right? Or the cyber security level or the risk management?
Danny Park: So integrity is a is a very big deal,
Danny Park: and it's something that all
Danny Park: you know Business leaders
Danny Park: have to be aware of right when it comes to understanding how the organization
Danny Park: acquiring its high volume of data and
Danny Park: right meeting. Where is it coming from?
Danny Park: Who is generating?
Danny Park: What different types of data are there
Danny Park: right? And then how fast are we getting it and generating it
Danny Park: right? So the three V's. To have a really good direct relation to the integrity. So the plan,
Danny Park: the data, the data, acquisition and management plan. That organization has the strategy that the organization has. It's ensuring this the integrity.
Danny Park: Okay, So
Danny Park: that's the you know, at the analyst level. Right?
Danny Park: Um! What? What? What can we do
Danny Park: to ensure data quality? And it's as easy as this is just asking questions around
Danny Park: right? I mean, I used to tell, you know I used. I still tell my teams today, I say, hey, when you're working with the data and you get it, and then you get data from somewhere.
Danny Park: First,
Danny Park: you have to understand the purpose of the analyst or analysis that you're doing.
Danny Park: If you don't, understand the value of the analysis. Right? Then you don't know how to assess your data for completeness. For example,
Danny Park: right? If the purpose of your data is
Danny Park: to help, the let's say the business leaders make a decision on
Danny Park: which market
Danny Park: tender,
Danny Park: right? So they want to pursue a particular market that they ever pursued before. So when you go back into your data set you
Danny Park: right. There should be data in there that's relates to. You know.
Danny Park: You know market entry type data, right, you know, which which markets are your competitors, and who's in it? How much is what's the market should look like? Where does ped of C stand today? It's like old, so like it. It understanding the value of your data right? I mean the the purpose of your data analysis will help you back into if it's complete or not
Danny Park: right? And then everything else going, you know, release the consistency, confirmity, accuracy, your timing timeliness, integrity, is just, you know the question
Danny Park: right or just going to someone who's more experienced, right like your coach or mentor, and ask them, hey? I got this data that can you help me review it for completeness.
Danny Park: Right? So. And here's the Here's a a really good metric for you for those who. Um,
Danny Park: no. Are we interested in data, analytics and business analytics? Right? Well, it's really okay. So it's really data analytics. I know. I know business analytics is the name of the course. But business analytics is data analytics.
Danny Park: Okay, It's like we're analyzing data for a business purpose. So we call it business analytics, but it's the same like this kind of goes hand in hand in hand. So anyone who wants to be a
Danny Park: have build a career around data quality.
Danny Park: What plans
Danny Park: do we have in place
Danny Park: to account for the three V's:
Danny Park: how we're going to
Danny Park: collectively take the data that we have right
Danny Park: and ensure these six components, the
Danny Park: So there's like a methodology and framework
Danny Park: plans in place to ensure data quality. That's data strategy work.
Danny Park: So when you guys hear data strategy, it's as simple as oh, what you do. But what that rule means is you're trying. You're developing plans, processes, technology, implementations, methodologies, and frameworks to ensure that the the data that you get
Danny Park: whatever type it is,
Danny Park: no matter how much data that you have, and no matter how fast you're getting and and sending data you're ensuring these components in every transaction that's occurring in your company.
Danny Park: Okay? And so why is data strategy becoming such a huge topic? Right? I mean, I first had an example.
Danny Park: Um,
Danny Park: and it's not like it's not anything secret. I think every organization is trying to work toward this right now, and any big, any large organization right now is they're trying to figure out how they're going to standardize the acquisition of their data,
Danny Park: then how to transform it and process it in a way. We're all downstream.
Danny Park: Consumers can seamlessly integrate it into their systems or operational processes.
Danny Park: Um:
Danny Park: So Forbes
Danny Park: right? Their recent survey of Ceos, Eighty four percent of Ceos are concerned about data quality,
Danny Park: right? So
Danny Park: with that data quality concern, right? They are focused on
Danny Park: two areas
Danny Park: which is the integrity of their data
Danny Park: and the accuracy of the data.
Danny Park: So, in other words, the word that we could, the word that they're looking for
Danny Park: right? So what does data quality really mean?
Danny Park: It means trust.
Danny Park: What Ceos are asking is, can we trust
Danny Park: the data that we get
Danny Park: our data strategy
Danny Park: to enable us to make the best decision
Danny Park: to gain a competitive advantage?
Danny Park: Thank you. So
Danny Park: i'll kind of end our session with this,
Danny Park: because I think we're we're getting to about an hour worth of recording.
Danny Park: Okay, So to determine data quality, it's an ongoing task.
Danny Park: It's, it's It's never ending. It's not. And not only at the analysts level it's at every level organization, right? It's an enterprise-wide
Danny Park: there has to be standards in place across the entire enterprise that everyone has a a real
Danny Park: start
Danny Park: around
Danny Park: the quality of the data that they're using day in and day out.
Danny Park: Okay. And and here I might be kind of. I might be kind of going overboard. But this is where I approach it, right. I even consider emails
Danny Park: like data clog. And when I get an email from somewhere,
Danny Park: right,
Danny Park: I go. Okay, Did I get the information?
Danny Park: And is the information in the email convey to me. Is it timely? Not that I got the email, like during my working hours? I'm talking about the information in that email like is this is whatever the send is trying to describe for me or sharing with me. Is that timely? When did that data?
Danny Park: When was a data shared with that sender, because just because that sender email me at nine zero A. M. Today
Danny Park: example, right? They that data within that email that person might have got two weeks ago. So
Danny Park: there's nothing in that
Danny Park: email
Danny Park: the real email. I'm: kind of referring to real email
Danny Park: there. There was nothing in that email
Danny Park: that tells me what gives me a clue as to when that person got that data that person didn't say, Hey, Danny, I saw I got a data. I got this information and report from X person on y date at this time. That was basic from the email.
So I am already assuming. Okay, It's not timely.
Danny Park: I could confirm it. Good! I'm going to go and confirm it, or ask this person to confirm it. But right now i'm not going to act. I'm not going to respond to this email or forward it to anyone else, or especially I'm not going to make a business decision on this email
Danny Park: which a lot of a lot of people do. A lot of people make that mistake of read. They read an email. There's some useful data in there, but they automatically assume it's useful. But there's nothing in the email,
Danny Park: then, after you know. So that's my first check
Danny Park: right? Because emails are notorious for being late or read late.
Danny Park: I've seen people read emails a week late with that data in there that's clearly about week old.
Danny Park: The response email from that is a business decision.
Danny Park: And that would just reply back that data is all. Try again.
Danny Park: So that's number one, right?
Danny Park: If it's timely right, i'm gonna ask myself, Okay, is everything shared with me in any email. Is it complete? Right? So then, I would ask, What's the business purpose
Danny Park: like? I told you we talked about like having What's the purpose? What's the actual purpose of the analysis? You're doing for the leadership? So when I get this email, you know what's the topic, What's the purpose like what? What's the context around this business decision?
Danny Park: So is the data that shared with me in that email? Is it complete enough for me to make a good business decision based on the topic or the context.
Danny Park: Right? If it's. No. I go back to confirm
Danny Park: bye bye,
Danny Park: just want to, you know. Confirm, if you understand the sender, what the business purpose is, because this is how I understand what the business purpose is. I mean, If this business purpose I have
Danny Park: accurate. Please provide me this this and this information because it's not complete right Now, you didn't give me enough information to make a business decision, because
Danny Park: right the purpose is off,
Danny Park: but my purpose is off. Might be all, for yours might be off
Danny Park: all right. So let's then let's say, Now I have timeless and complete covered
Danny Park: right? And again i'm confirming right, i'm confirmed confirmity is just the ability again the ability for me to trace
Danny Park: back to the source.
Danny Park: Two,
Danny Park: you know, ensure accuracy and integrity, timeliness, completeness, and consistency, um or it's already been confirmed for me. So in this case before I'm using because you know, because I don't have a a sign off for a reviewer in place. Right? I'm using confirmity
Danny Park: component to you know again to bolster or enhance my timeliness and my completeness. So let's say I, those two checked.
Danny Park: The next thing obviously is that check for consistency, but usually in emails you really have to. But let's say I actually had a data file,
Danny Park: right? I open it up, and I see different rows
Danny Park: of data, right? And if I see the you know the same row, or maybe in the columns and columns, if they're kind of saying the same thing. Or if I don't understand the purpose of a particular column or a particular row,
Danny Park: right or what it means? Right? I'm going to ask, Hey, what do you mean by row? I see a title of a row or a column.
Danny Park: What is a definition of it?
Danny Park: Right? So they use an example of the tax associate right? You know, and when they said non-activity income,
Danny Park: the good thing would have been. Instead of assuming that something else the tax associate should have went. Oh, wait a minute! I've never seen that before Hey, manager, any more experience tax professional who's been on this engagement before I see non-activity income
Danny Park: does that mean dividends,
Danny Park: or what does that mean?
Danny Park: All right. So now I'm I'm ensuring consistency.
Danny Park: They're not going to look for accuracy,
Danny Park: right?
Danny Park: Right, like, you know, usually in emails for business leaders. It's like a check. Usually. I just, you know, use my intuition to say, Hey, I don't know if that looks. But I don't know if that looks okay. If I get it like a weird feeling around a number
Danny Park: or even information I confirm.
Danny Park: All right, Let's see the email says, you know. And this situation happened. And Yada Yada! Yada! Yada
Danny Park: would come out of that meeting
Danny Park: right then I would go look on the stakeholder, you know. Look on the list of people who attended the same meeting,
Danny Park: right? And I was just asked a couple of them. Hey, I got, you know I got this email from So and so. And it said this like, Did you hear the same thing
Danny Park: right? And they'll confirm that for me?
Danny Park: All right. So it's accurate right the information. I'm getting the data I'm getting is accurate,
Danny Park: Right? Integrity like it's an email. So I don't have to go fast far as to like kind of check. What you know if if the systems when it came from it just, you know, just outlook all right. So in that instance I don't really have to take your integrity. But i'm trying to explain. What I'm trying to show is how data quality is a job that all of us have to do.
Danny Park: Okay, we can't. We can't assume automatically that the information data that we get automatically is timely complete, consistent, confirmed
Danny Park: that has integrity.
Danny Park: It's
Danny Park: So that's a main takeaway from this session
Danny Park: awesome. So we are at eight hundred and six. I think I don't have anything else wanted to cover
Danny Park: um. If there are any questions, please feel free to. You know more than happen, you know. Please email me what set up office hours, and if you have any questions more than happy to get, you know. Go over it then, but as promised the first session, I mean the first fifteen minutes of our Friday sections will me will be me filling any questions anyone has
Danny Park: around these pre-recorded videos.
Danny Park: All right, awesome, All right. So with that everyone thank you for reviewing our first pre-recorded video,
Danny Park: and I look forward to seeing everyone in class on Friday. Thanks. Everybody have a great night.